- [Instructor] Spring Actuator
is a very important monitoring tool
and useful for production level operational success
for any spring based project.
Spring Actuator is a utility
for monitoring and managing the runtime operations
of your Spring Boot application.
In this video, we're going to talk about configuration
of the actuator in a real project,
and also take a quick overview
of the capabilities that actuator provides.
Let's jump into a real life demo application
and get accustomed to some of the capabilities
that Spring Actuator gives to us.
This is a demo project available
to you in the project repository.
We're looking at the demo API project.
Let's close that Explorer
to give us a little more real estate.
And the critical thing here,
really, almost the only thing you need
to get Spring Boot Actuator going
in your project is this dependency,
in your dependency configuration file.
This is a Maven project and so we're in a pom.xml file,
it could be different if you're using cradle
or some other build manager.
At any rate, the dependency you need
is Spring Boot Starter Actuator.
And once that is in here,
technically that is all you have to do,
but we're going to do one other thing for convenience here.
We're going to add an attribute here
into our application properties,
exposing all of the capabilities through a web browser,
and that will make it easy for me
to demo to you what's possible.
So with those two things having been done,
our dependency in pom.xml
and one property here, the end points,
web exposure property in our application properties.
We're going to start our demo
and it looks like we're started up here.
So now let's first look,
this is kind of a demonstration end point in our API,
but what I really want to show you here,
is this new endpoint that actuator gives to us,
now that it is configured within our application.
Please notice here in your browser,
all of these different categories
of information that are now surfaced to you,
having done very little setup work to start with.
For example, these are all categories of information
that you can pull on the runtime of your application.
For example, the beans that are currently configured
in your application context,
a complete listing that is updated periodically
to reflect their absolute latest runtime information.
For example, this web end point discovery bean
is the one that's enabling us to browse the actuator stuff
right here in our browser.
Let's have a look at another example.
Oh, well the health check is simply telling us
that our application is up and running.
Environment information tells us all
about the properties active in our current application.
So a lot of interesting stuff that you get
for very little configuration work.
Now let's pause and have a look
at some of the more detailed bits
of configuration information that you ought to know.
So the by virtue of putting this dependency
in your build configuration,
spring will automatically enable all
of the actuator end points for you
with the exception of one.
And that one is a shutdown endpoint.
So let's do something fun here and let's go ahead
and enable that shutdown endpoint.
And we're going to do that by adding a new property here,
management end point shut down enabled equals true.
This is kind of clearly a security sort of capability
that spring does not want to enable for you by default.
But when we activate it here in the properties file,
we will get it.
Now let's do something else.
Let's turn off the default enablement
of all of our end points.
Let's say that all of the end points are enabled
by the false is false,
but let's only enable the shutdown end point
and let's for fun enable the health end point.
Now we're still exposing them all to the web,
but we've turned them all off by default
and we've enabled two specific end points.
So let's start this up again and quickly,
you will see the difference that the simple configurations
make here in our browser view.
See, now we have health.
We have shut down.
The sub path of health is a part of health.
And then we have the actuator itself
which is what we're looking at.
So that's an example of how to turn off
or rather disable certain actuator end points
and enable them on an individual basis as you need them.
Now, the takeaway with this is that when an endpoint
is disabled, it is completely removed
from the application context.
So if you really don't need some of these end points,
disabling them as a good idea,
it just helps your application run a little leaner
in terms of all the things
that are loaded into that context.
Now, so that's a bit about enablement.
You can turn them on by default, off by default,
turn individual things on and off, as you wish.
Let's talk about exposure because
this is a very important part.
So Spring Actuator has the ability
to expose end points over HTTP, which we are looking at here
in our browser demonstration and also over JMX.
JMX stands for Java management extensions.
And by exposing this information to JMX framework,
spring actuator allows you to interact with it
through a Java management console.
By default, when you configure actuator
into your Spring Boot project,
almost all of the enabled points are exposed over JMX
and almost all of them are not exposed over HTTP.
That is why at the beginning of this demo,
we had to put this include line in here to say yes,
please give me all of them over the web so that I can browse
them in a browser that helps her demo along a bit.
So that's an important thing to note.
You can also exclude certain end points from exposure
to either modality as you wish.
Okay, so that's a bit about enablement.
That's a bit about exposure, HTTP and or JMX exposure
for these different functionalities.
Security is a massive part of configuration, of course,
for the actuator end points,
because clearly you don't want people meddling
in your application and doing things for instance,
like a shutdown and unauthorized.
So security configuration is important.
It's outside the scope of what we can cover in this lesson,
but you would configure these endpoints
using spring security like you would
other security considerations.
Let's wrap up this video by having a look
at some additional configuration you can do
with respect to this health metric.
So by default, we have our health endpoint enabled
and exposed to the web and we can see a simple message
telling us that our API is up and active,
but there's much more you can do with health in particular.
Not surprisingly Spring Boot is all about doing things
for us by default,
we can add a couple of additional properties here
on the health end point asking Spring Actuator
to show some additional details and also show
some components that are pre-configured.
So let me not try to explain that, let's just restart this
and I will show you what those give us.
Again right out of the box because that's what spring
is so good at doing.
So notice here with our health metrics,
we have additional information,
not only do we have the status of our application
as a whole, as being up,
but also the actuator now is reporting some automatically
registered components of our application.
We have a database component,
we have an H2 database configured in here to our API.
Spring notices that it's configured
and is reporting us the status on that database.
It's also automatically giving us information
about the disc space that we're running against
on our CPU with some details there.
And the ping status is something we get automatically
out of the box simply by configuring
these two particular attributes on the health end point.
Now there are 16 different components that spring
is capable of configuring by default.
If you have it wired into your spring application,
things like send a mail or JMS queue
or see elastic search with AWS
can be automatically picked up and configured here
is a component that the actuator can report
in detail about the health of these by component.
So that concludes our lesson about configuration
and capabilities of Spring Actuator.